New Page: Hallucination Detection Agent + Tutorial (#118)
kluster-ai/docs: get-started/hallucination-agent/chat-completion.md

---
title: Chat Completion Hallucination Detection

> description: Learn how to use the kluster.ai Hallucination Detection Agent to validate responses in full chat conversations.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
description: Learn how to use the kluster.ai hallucination detection agent to validate responses in full chat conversations.
```

---

> # Chat Completion

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Chat completion
```

Reviewer: This might change depending on how we rename the page. Maybe to "Via chat completion API"

> The Chat Completion method allows you to validate responses in full conversation histories using the same format as the standard chat completions API. This approach enables detection of hallucinations within the complete context of a conversation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can perform hallucination detection within the complete context of a conversation via the chat completion method, as it allows you to validate responses in full conversation histories using the same format as the standard chat completions API. 
```

## Prerequisites

Before getting started with hallucination detection, ensure the following requirements are met:

> - **kluster.ai account** - sign up on the [kluster.ai platform](https://platform.kluster.ai/signup){target=_blank} if you do not have one
> - **kluster.ai API key** - after signing in, go to the [API Keys](https://platform.kluster.ai/apikeys){target=_blank} section and create a new key. For detailed instructions, see the [Get an API key](https://docs.kluster.ai/get-started/get-api-key/){target=_blank} guide

Reviewer: ```suggestion
--8<-- 'text/kluster-api-onboarding.md'
```

## How it works

The service evaluates the truthfulness of responses within a conversation by:

1. Analyzing the entire conversation history, including system instructions.
2. Examining the assistant's responses within context.
3. Determining if the responses contain hallucinated or unsupported information.

> 4. Providing a detailed explanation of the reasoning behind the determination and the search results used for fact-checking.

Reviewer: I would put this in the introduction! :) and then at the end of the intro I would put something like:

"This page shows you how you can perform hallucination detection using the chat completions endpoint via the kluster.ai API."

## Usage modes

The agent operates in two distinct modes depending on whether you provide context with your request:

> - **Dedicated Endpoint** - use the API directly without specifying a model.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Dedicated endpoint**: Use the API directly without specifying a model.
```

> - **OpenAI SDK** - select the hallucination-detection model and use the SDK in a familiar way.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **OpenAI SDK**: Select the hallucination-detection model and use the SDK in a familiar way.
```

### Dedicated endpoint

> By using the `/v1/judges/detect-hallucination` endpoint to check whether an assistant's answer is hallucination.

Reviewer: This page shold be all about chat completion right? Why cover this here and not in the question/answers?

??? example "Python"

    ```python
    from openai import OpenAI
    from getpass import getpass

    # Get API key from user input
    api_key = getpass("Enter your kluster.ai API key: ")

    # Initialize OpenAI client pointing to kluster.ai API
    client = OpenAI(
        api_key=api_key,
        base_url="https://api.kluster.ai/v1"
    )

    # Create chat completion request
    completion = client.chat.completions.create(
        model="klusterai/hallucination-detection",
        messages = [
        {
            "role": "system",
            "content": "You are a knowledgeable assistant that provides accurate medical information."
        },
        {
            "role": "user",
            "content": "Does vitamin C cure the common cold?"
        },
        {
            "role": "assistant",
            "content": "Yes, taking large doses of vitamin C has been scientifically proven to cure the common cold within 24 hours."
        }
    ]
    )

    # Extract the hallucination detection response
    text_response = completion.choices[0].message.content  

    # Print response to console
    print(text_response)
    
    ```

## Next steps

> - Learn how to use [Question/Answer Hallucination Detection](/get-started/hallucination-agent/question-answer/){target=_self} for simpler verification scenarios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Learn how to use [Question/answer hallucination detection](/get-started/hallucination-agent/question-answer/){target=_self} for simpler verification scenarios
```

> - Explore [Examples](/get-started/hallucination-agent/examples/){target=_self} of hallucination detection in real-world scenarios

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Explore [examples](/get-started/hallucination-agent/examples/){target=_self} of hallucination detection in real-world scenarios
```
